Add documentation for Gardener receiver (#61)
gardener/opentelemetry-collector: receiver/gardenerreceiver/README.md

| Issues        | [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/gardener/opentelemetry-collector/issues) |
| Code Owners   | see [`CODEOWNERS`](../../CODEOWNERS)                                        |

The Gardener receiver scrapes the Gardener API server and emits metrics about
Gardener resources — `Shoot`s, `Seed`s, `Project`s, `ManagedSeed`s, and
`Gardenlet`s. It is intended to be deployed against a Gardener virtual garden
cluster (or a development garden) to provide an observability view over the
landscape of managed Kubernetes clusters.

The receiver uses [Kubernetes shared informers] to watch the relevant Gardener
resources, keeps the objects in an in-memory cache, and periodically translates
the cache contents into OTLP metric data points. List/watch traffic against the
API server is therefore independent of the configured collection interval.

[Kubernetes shared informers]: https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/client-go/tools/cache#SharedIndexInformer

## Configuration

The receiver is configured under the `gardener` receiver key. All options have
sensible defaults; an empty configuration is valid and watches every supported

> resource cluster-wide using the in-cluster service-account, or the kubeconfig

Reviewer: ```suggestion
resource cluster-wide using the in-cluster `ServiceAccount`, or the kubeconfig
```

referenced by `$KUBECONFIG`/`~/.kube/config` when in-cluster configuration is
not available.

| Option                | Type            | Default                                               | Description                                                                                                                                                      |
|-----------------------|-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `kubeconfig`          | string          | _empty_                                               | Path to a kubeconfig pointing at the Gardener (virtual garden) API server. If empty, uses in-cluster config first, then falls back to `$KUBECONFIG`/`~/.kube/config`. |

> | `namespace`           | string          | _empty_ (all namespaces)                              | Restrict watches for `Shoot`s and their billing binding resources to this namespace. All other enabled resources are watched cluster-wide.                           |

Reviewer: I didn't understand here how a `namespace` configuration option is only relevant for shoots.

| `resources`           | list of strings | `[shoots, seeds, projects, managedseeds, gardenlets]` | Resources to watch and emit metrics for. Allowed values: `shoots`, `seeds`, `projects`, `managedseeds`, `gardenlets`.                                            |

### Example

```yaml
receivers:
  gardener:
    kubeconfig: /var/run/secrets/gardener/virtual-garden/kubeconfig
    collection_interval: 60s
    resources:
      - shoots
      - seeds
      - projects

exporters:
  otlp:
    endpoint: otel-collector.example.com:4317

service:
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers:  [gardener]
      exporters:  [otlp]
```

## Emitted Metrics

All metrics are emitted under the instrumentation scope
`github.com/gardener/opentelemetry-collector/receiver/gardenerreceiver`.
Per-object metrics carry attributes identifying the underlying Gardener object
(e.g. `gardener.project.name`, `gardener.shoot.name`,
`gardener.shoot.technical_id`, `gardener.seed.name`). Shoots are identified by
the pair `(gardener.project.name, gardener.shoot.name)` together with the

> unique `gardener.shoot.technical_id`; the underlying Kubernetes namespace is

Reviewer: I found this confusing. Shoots should be identified by the `technical_id`. The `(project name, shoot name)` pair can only identify shoots at a specific point in time.

### Per-object metrics

| Resource group | Metric name                               | Notes                                                                                                                         |
|----------------|-------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Shoots         | `garden.shoot.info`                       | Static metadata as attributes (provider, region, k8s version, purpose, failure tolerance, billing/cost-object attributes, …). |
| Shoots         | `garden.shoot.hibernated`                 | `1` if the shoot is hibernated, `0` otherwise.                                                                                |
| Shoots         | `garden.shoot.creation_timestamp`         | Unix timestamp of `metadata.creationTimestamp`.                                                                               |
| Shoots         | `garden.shoot.condition`                  | One data point per condition with value `1`; condition type/status/reason are attributes.                                      |

> | Shoots         | `garden.shoot.status`                     | One-hot aggregate status (`healthy` / `progressing` / `unhealthy` / `unknown`) with status as an attribute.                   |

Reviewer: Shouldn't this metric also have value 1 for the current status, and 0 for the others?

Also, I think we could use the word `StateSet` to describe metrics where 1 shows the current state.

All metrics are emitted under the instrumentation scope
`github.com/gardener/opentelemetry-collector/receiver/gardenerreceiver`.
Per-object metrics carry attributes identifying the underlying Gardener object
(e.g. `gardener.project.name`, `gardener.shoot.name`, `gardener.shoot.uid`,
`gardener.shoot.technical_id`, `gardener.seed.name`). The stable, globally

> unique identifier for a shoot is `gardener.shoot.uid`.

Reviewer: > The stable, globally unique identifier for a shoot is `gardener.shoot.uid`

Ah yes, this is what I meant. My previous comment was mixing up `uid` and `technical_id`. Thanks for catching and addressing it.
